I've had a 14-year career in financial services, but I just got laid off and I don't think it makes sense to look for another job like my old one. (They're disappearing rapidly.) I'd like to get some solid advice and coaching as I think about my next move -- including which other industry I might be able to transfer my skills to -- so I've been thinking about hiring a coach. But an Internet search turns up a bewildering variety of choices. How do I pick the right one?
I'm a department manager in a company that recently slashed its workforce (and we think there is probably more cutting ahead). My team has shrunk from 12 people to 7, but we still have to reach the same productivity goals. This is hard on everybody, but one of my direct reports - an extremely talented techie whom I'd hate to lose - seems to be taking the extra pressure particularly badly. He has started ranting and raving over small mistakes his colleagues make, and even blew up at me yesterday when I asked him what I intended as an innocent question about a project. I was caught off guard by his anger and started shouting back at him, which just made him even madder. If (or when) he flies off the handle again, how should I deal with it?
 I am second-in-command at a small division of a huge company. We always have a quarterly meeting with employees, and another with the board of directors, to talk about our financial results for the preceding three months. In the past it has fallen to my boss to make these kinds of announcements but, this time around, he will be traveling in China when the numbers come out and has alerted me that I will be doing the honors.
I know the numbers are going to be terrible (for the first time in several years) and, if the question comes up, I'll have to acknowledge that there may be layoffs ahead. Do you have any suggestions for how to soften the blow? Should I open with something humorous, or play it straight?
I work for Hewlett-Packard (HPQ, Fortune 500), which, as you probably know, is planning to lay off more than 24,000 people worldwide over the next three years. It seems that most of those on the chopping block are employees who came along with HP's acquisition of EDS. Since I happen to be in that group, I wonder if I should leave now, or wait and see what happens. On the one hand, I like it here, and my immediate boss has told me that he sees a great future for me at HP, so I should "just sit tight." On the other hand, I have two other job offers, one that came from a recruiter, and another from a former EDS colleague who left before the merger. Any advice on what to do?
All of my short professional life so far has been in an industry that I've realized is not for me. I'm currently the only IT guy in a small company, a job I took with the assurance that I would gradually be moved into more of a management position, but that has yet to happen. I'm sick of computers, but all my experience (including part-time jobs in college) is confined to this area. What is the best way to redo my resume and approach interviews in a completely different industry? I know of a number of other people my age (mid-to-late 20s) who are in the same situation.
 I work in an office with about 40 peers (and 2 bosses), and rumors are rife that about 10 or 12 of us are going to get laid off as part of the latest cost-cutting drive. The situation has really brought out the worst in some of my colleagues, who are kissing up to the bosses, spreading damaging gossip about certain people, and generally acting in ways that are, in my opinion, highly unprofessional. Should I just ignore all this, or would it be smart to point out to higher-ups (discreetly) that there is a lot of self-serving behavior going on here?
 I've been working with a recruiter on finding my next job, and he just told me that one possibility (an opening for a manufacturing manager with a midsized company) will require that I undergo a panel interview, meaning an interview conducted by a group of prospective colleagues and bosses, all in the room at the same time. I've never been interviewed by a group before. Is this unusual? Do you have any advice on how to succeed at it?
First of all, I'm glad I still have a job (so far), and I know there are lots of people worse off than I am, so I don't want to whine. Nonetheless, lately I feel I'm losing my grip. My company just went through a major restructuring (the third in four years), this time with huge layoffs that left the organization chart completely scrambled. So a promotion I was expecting is now probably not going to happen, we're all working harder than ever, and the 16 people under me are asking me for answers I don't have. It's hard to concentrate on getting everything done when there's so much uncertainty around. Any suggestions on how to stay focused? 
I was just hired to run a very troubled division of a major bank. They picked me for the job because I've done turnarounds before - although not in circumstances as dire as these - and I know I can handle the technical aspects of getting the business back on track. It's the "people" issues I'm worried about. Everybody under me is overworked, depressed, and pessimistic; and some of them seem to be lining up behind a guy who has worked here a long time and was one of the contenders for my job. Any suggestions on how to get off to a strong start with the team here? 
 My company has slashed several thousand jobs in two waves of layoffs, one in December and another about two weeks ago. I manage a department that used to have 41 people in it, and now numbers 28 (not counting me). Thank God I didn't personally have to let anyone go -- my employer's policy is to have HR handle the whole thing -- but we were a fairly tight-knit group, and now I see signs that my staff is demoralized and discouraged.
They're also overworked, but they've always been hard workers, so I don't think that's the main problem. It seems top management expects us all to be grateful that we still have jobs, and we are, but nobody seems to be bringing their "A" game lately. What can I do to get things back to (sort of) normal?
I lost my job at Lehman Brothers (LEHMQ) last September and have not succeeded in finding another finance position (for obvious reasons). But finance is all I know. While I was working at the firm, I completed almost one year of course work toward an MBA. I'm thinking of trying to transfer my credits to a full-time program and finishing the degree, which just seems like a more productive use of my time than job hunting right now. Do you agree? Also, will admissions people hold it against me that I worked at a failed firm, even though I had nothing to do with the problems?
 I got a call yesterday from a headhunter who is trying to fill an opening for an interim CFO at a large consumer-goods company. She said the position would probably last about six months. I have the right background for the job, and the company would be a great one for me to have on my resume. In addition, I've been feeling a little restless where I am now (partly because I was recently passed over for promotion to the CFO role here). So I'm considering the offer, but I wonder: What are the chances of this temporary position becoming permanent, so that I'm not out job hunting six months from now? And what are the advantages and disadvantages of being in an executive job for just a few months?
I got laid off from a senior management job in marketing last September, just as the worst of this recession was getting underway, so I'm now coming up on six months' unemployment. As a hiring manager for many years (I'm 47), I always looked askance at candidates who had been out of work this long, so now I'm worried that prospective employers will do the same to me.
I've been called for a couple of interviews, but neither job seemed right for me. Am I being too picky? Should I take just any job, if I get another chance, simply to avoid having such a big hole in my work history? Also, should I rewrite my resume? Currently it's chronological, but maybe a functional one -- emphasizing types of experience rather than when I did what -- would serve me better now. Please help. 
 I am worried about my husband of 19 years, who had a successful career in manufacturing project management until this recession hit. He lost his most recent job almost ten months ago, and at first he was doing a lot of networking, applying for jobs online, and even getting a few interviews, none of which panned out.
But lately, he seems to have given up. He hasn't met with anyone in his network for weeks now, he isn't applying for anything, and he mostly just hangs around the house or goes to the movies. I want to encourage him to get back out there and keep trying, but I don't know what to say that won't sound like criticism, which he doesn't need right now. Do you or your readers have any suggestions for us?
My son is going to graduate from college in December with a B.S. in computer science, and I am just wondering about the IT job market. On the one hand, we keep hearing about layoffs and outsourcing, but on the other hand, everything runs on computers now, so surely there must be some good tech jobs in this country, especially at the (relatively cheap) entry level. Is there anything he can do to increase his chances of getting hired six months from now?
I hope you can help me, because I am in a real mess here. I was laid off in January and, after a six-month job hunt, was offered a position similar to my old one. The new job required that I move from the Boston area to Atlanta. So my wife and I sold our house at a considerable loss, my wife quit her job, and we signed our kids up for their new schools in our new hometown. The company paid me a signing bonus and paid about half of our moving expenses. (My understanding is that the other half is tax-deductible, since we moved for work reasons.)
But while we were doing all this, the company that hired me underwent a reorganization. As a result, I have been informed that the job I was hired for no longer exists. So, while they are very sorry and so on, we are stranded in an unfamiliar city, unemployed. Am I obligated to return the signing bonus? Should I ask to have the other half of our moving expenses covered? (We need the money.) Did I make a mistake by not having gotten some kind of guarantee in writing? What are my legal rights?
 We used to have a great team here, until our boss was replaced by a manager brought in from another part of the company who is now trying to control our every move. He insists on telling everyone what to do and how to do it in minute detail (even though we've all been excelling at our jobs for years). No detail is too ridiculously tiny to escape his scrutiny, and he's constantly issuing new rules and guidelines, some of which contradict each other.
As a result, some of us are just taking the passive-aggressive approach and ignoring him, which means he bears down harder on the whole group. I could give you examples that would curl your hair, but the point is, it's driving us nuts. Is there anything we can do to change his behavior, or do we just grin and bear it until the next boss comes along? 
Is there some kind of standard etiquette for deciding whom to "friend" on Facebook? Lately I am finding myself in a couple of different quandaries with this. For one, my old boss, who laid me off from my last job with no warning (and no severance pay), has sent me a friend request. I'm still angry and hurt over the way he handled my termination, but should I accept anyway?
Another question: I'm in sales, so I'm in contact with lots of people, most of whom I barely know. Would it be smart to accept their friend requests anyway? I started out saying yes to everyone, but now find my home page cluttered with posts from people I wouldn't recognize if I saw them on the street, and I frankly don't care what they had for breakfast. Can you offer some guidelines?
I enjoyed your Sept. 30 column, and readers' comments, about how to decide whom to "friend" on Facebook. I recently joined LinkedIn, which I have heard is a terrific job-search tool, but I could really use some pointers on how to make the most of it. (I lost my old job about six weeks ago and, while my severance pay will last another couple of months, I need to step up my job hunt.)
Should I connect with everyone who contacts me, or limit my LinkedIn connections to only those people in my field, which is finance, or my industry? Also, how important are recommendations?
Late last year, the software company where I worked as a full-time webmaster had to lay people off, but they kept some of us on as independent contractors. My boss offered me a deal where I would be doing the exact same job as before, only paid by the hour instead of on salary, with no benefits.
When I agreed to this, I was so relieved not to be unemployed that I accepted, even though there was nothing in writing. But now I'm starting to wonder if I made a mistake. For one thing, I'm expected to be on call at all hours of the day and night, but I don't get paid for being on call, only for the 40 hours a week that I'm in the office. (I didn't get paid for overtime before either, but I was a salaried employee then, with benefits, etc.) Is this legal?
I'm in a terrible spot. About four years ago, right out of college, I got a job as part of a new-product launch team at a big consumer products company. Everything was going great. Then, two years ago, my boss was replaced by someone who just didn't like me. No matter how hard I tried, our personalities were like oil and water, and we just never clicked.
So I wasn't too surprised when I was among the first to get laid off during staff cutbacks last spring. The shock came last week. After several months of job hunting and half a dozen interviews that went nowhere, the hiring manager at one company where I applied recently called and told me my most recent boss, whom I gave as a reference, is saying bad things about me. (Among other negative remarks, he said I was "flighty.") My old company has a formal policy in the employee manual against telling anyone anything except dates of employment and job title. Should I tell someone at the company that my old boss is violating the policy? Should I call him and ask why he is saying these things? Should I get a lawyer? [Unfortunately, my first boss there, who liked me, has since passed away.] Help!
Please settle an argument. I'm a junior in college, studying engineering, and I have two choices for what to do this summer. One is, I could wait tables at the same upscale restaurant where I worked last year, and earn enough tips to pay my tuition for my entire senior year.
The other option is, I've been offered an internship at a local engineering partnership, which would probably be great experience and look good on a resume, but it pays nada. I don't want to graduate with a pile of debt, so I'm inclined to take the restaurant job, but my dad says I'm thinking too short-term and that the internship would be a much smarter move. Who is right?
What is going on in HR departments at big companies these days? The last time I looked for a job, which admittedly was quite a while ago, if you submitted a resume and cover letter to HR, you at least got some kind of response (even if it was a form letter saying "no thanks").
That seems to have changed. I've been looking for work for almost a year now, since I lost my job as a brand manager at a mid-sized company, and it is incredibly frustrating. I've sent dozens of carefully crafted resumes to HR people, usually in response to specific ads on job boards or company websites, and it's like sending things into a black hole. I just hear nothing.
Are your other readers having this experience? How can I get these gatekeepers to respond to me, or if that's asking too much, how do I get past them?
I hope you can settle an argument. My parents are saying that with my college major (English), it will probably be hard for me to find a job when I graduate next spring. They want me to go straight to grad school and get a master's degree, which they say will make me more "marketable." (They are willing to foot the bill, which I do appreciate.)
But I am really reluctant to start applying because, to be honest, I'm kind of tired of being a student and I'm ready for some kind of real-world experience. I'd really like to join the Peace Corps, which my parents say is "not practical." Do you have any advice?
I applied for an opening as a senior marketing manager at a Fortune 500 company two months ago and have since been back for three rounds of interviews. The meetings have gone really well, but they haven't made an offer yet.
I just had a meeting with the person who'd be my immediate boss, plus a human resources person, and they asked me, "What are your salary requirements?" I have only a hazy idea of what pay range they have in mind, and we haven't discussed benefits at all, so -- caught off guard -- I added 10% to what I made in my last job and told them that number. Was that the right way to handle it? If not, what should I have said instead?
I bet I'm not the only reader wondering about this, so I hope you can give me some advice. My 17-year-old son, starting his senior year in high school, is very bright but not a good student. He just doesn't enjoy learning in a classroom setting, or excel at taking written tests.
However, he's extremely good at figuring out how things work and fixing them (he's the unofficial auto mechanic and computer geek for our entire neighborhood) and he's thinking that, instead of going to college, he'd like to get a job that would train him to develop those kinds of skills.
Okay, but I worry about his earning power over time: I've heard that college grads earn an average of $1 million more, over their lifetime, than people with a high school diploma. So will he be making a big mistake by skipping college?
After 38 years in financial management, I'll be retiring at the end of this year, but I hope to be working just as hard at something new. My wife and I (and our two daughters) are avid amateur musicians who each got our start through music classes in our public schools.
Now, because of state and local budget cuts, local music programs are all but disappearing. Drawing partly on our experience and connections in the business world, we want to figure out how to start a nonprofit that would raise money to buy musical instruments, hire music teachers, and put music lessons back in the curriculum. I know that charitable giving overall has been battered by the recession, so maybe the timing is bad. Your thoughts?
I hope you and your readers have some suggestions for me, because I'm just about at the end of my rope. My 89-year-old mother, who has what her doctor calls "moderate" Alzheimer's disease, came to live with us a few months ago and needs constant supervision. We are lucky enough to have a licensed practical nurse who comes in on weekdays to be with her, but the nurse leaves at 3 p.m., which is right around the time my two teenaged kids get home from school. They've been great about pitching in, but I don't feel it's fair to ask them to give up extracurricular activities in order to keep an eye on my mom. The long and short of it is I really would like to be able to work from home in the late afternoons and early evenings.
The problem is my company expects everyone to be at his or her desk from 9 to 5 (or later), no exceptions. With the technology we have now, I could work more flexible hours without any problem, but my boss says there is no policy allowing this and that it would be "disruptive" to the office routine. How can I convince him otherwise? 
Am I the only one who wonders what ever happened to good manners? I'm not even that old (37), but it seems to me that people used to make more of an effort to be polite at work and practice certain basic courtesies. Now, it seems the workplace has gotten so casual that anything goes.
Here's an example: At my company, only the very top people have offices with doors. The rest of us, including middle management types like me, work in cubicles. But I frequently need to concentrate on something complicated or have a difficult conversation with someone, and it's hard to do either of those when people feel free to barge in at any moment without even a pretense of "knocking" first.
Most of the coworkers who do this are younger than I am, which leads me to think that plain old good manners are an endangered species. Do you agree?
Also, what do you think of people who use the "bcc." (blind copy) feature to secretly send emails loaded with "constructive criticism" to other people's bosses? Some of my direct reports seem to see nothing wrong with this, but I think it's dirty pool.
I hope you and your readers can give me some guidance, because I am at the end of my tether. I am the supervisor of a small department (eight people) that includes a couple of extremely vocal Tea Party activists, three or four "liberal" types, and one or two of us who are more middle-of-the-road.
Ordinarily, who cares, right? But this election seems to be bringing out the ugly in people, and the closer we get to actually voting, the worse it gets. Recently, I had to break up a fistfight -- a fistfight! -- in the break room between one of the right-wingers and another employee who apparently disagreed with him.
In my 26 years in business, I have never seen people so het up about politics, and it is distracting us from work. I wanted to call a meeting and ask everyone to please leave their political opinions in the parking lot, but a colleague told me this would violate employees' First Amendment rights. Should I do it anyway?
I'm a college freshman trying to decide on a major, and I'm kind of confused. I really love computers and the computer science courses I've taken so far. I'd like to major in the field, but people tell me I won't be able to find a job in it.
Everything in the U.S. runs on computers now, so how can that be? It doesn't make sense. If I do major in computer science, what are my chances of finding a good job? 
I have a colleague who is also a friend, and I think he's about to make a huge mistake. I'm hoping you (and your readers) can help me talk him out of it. My friend -- call him Ed -- has been working 80-hour weeks to make up for layoffs in our division. In two years, he has not gotten any raises at all, and now his boss has informed him that his bonus for the first quarter will be half what he was expecting. So Ed's going to quit and take a job offer at another company.
Fine, but the thing is, he's writing a long, vitriolic resignation letter spelling out all his complaints. He says he needs to get it all off his chest, and maybe convince higher-ups to treat his replacement more fairly. He's also planning to air his grievances in an exit interview with human resources. I say he's just shooting himself in the foot. Am I right?
I have a very close friend who's been out of work for almost a year now. He was my college roommate: I've known him for almost 20 years and, for about half that time, we worked at the same company. Then he got laid off. Last week one of my kids told me that my friend's youngest son missed out on a ski trip with the rest of his class because of the expense, even though the cost was minimal (to those of us with jobs).
A couple of other buddies and I are thinking of pooling some cash and giving it to our friend, just to tide him and his family over until he gets another job. But he is a proud person and would probably be insulted by what he would see as charity. Should we make the offer anyway? Any thoughts from you and your readers on what else we can do to help?
What's up with all the phone interviews lately? The last time I looked for a job, about 10 years ago, I never once was interviewed over the phone. Now, I've been job hunting for about 4 months and have had seven phone interviews, none of which has led anywhere. Is there some kind of secret to successfully interviewing on the phone? I'm trying to figure out where I've gone wrong.
 I got a fantastic promotion when my boss retired a few months ago, and I love the job. Just one small fly in the ointment: One of my new duties is giving a year-end presentation to the executive committee and the board of directors. So far in my career I have managed to avoid doing much public speaking, but I can't get out of this, and although it embarrasses me to admit it, I suffer terribly from stage fright. Can you and your readers recommend any proven techniques for losing the jitters? 
I'm a week away from my 54th birthday and, man, am I getting discouraged. After being laid off from a fairly senior job in May, I've spent the past few months networking nonstop, and managed to get three interviews. One interviewer never got back to me at all, and the other two both said I am overqualified for the jobs they have to offer.
I suspect that "overqualified" is corporate code for "old and expensive," so I tried to explain that I am more than willing to take a step or two down in position and salary (both my kids are out of college now, and our mortgage is almost paid off), but I still hit a brick wall. How does one get around being seen as "overqualified"?
