years ago, I met my price. [Dolls, price is such an interesting slip, I'm leaving it in.] He's loyal, royal, funny, cheeky, and great in bed. Our life is comfortable, complete with private jets and super-yachts. The problem is: I'm 23; he's 50 and doesn't want to marry, doesn't want children, and has taken away my independence. He asked me to stop working, going to the gym, and seeing my friends so I can be available to him 24/7. We never go out because he's so private. Other guys flirt with me constantly; I've never been unfaithful, but recently I met a young sailor who really turned my head. Suddenly the notion of being in love with someone my age, going out to dinner and parties, feels like a better option. My best friend tells me my prince is old, smokes, drinks, and shouldn't last much longer. So should I save everything I can and wait it out? I would have no more Louboutins if I walked away now
Right now I'm at a resort with my boyfriend, and he decided to invade my privacy and read the text messages on my phone while I was at breakfast. He totally misconstrued what he read and called me a "whore," a "hustler," a "real piece of work," and a "fake" to my face. What should I do, other than never talk to him again? 
One day my emotions got the best of me, and I read his text messages on his phone. There was a message from a woman saying she wanted to have sex with him "again"! He was upset about this invasion of privacy, and said he could never trust me.
I looked at his texts and saw he had invited her to his place at 4 a.m. I was so mad and frustrated that I ended up going through all his text messages. He was flirt-texting with four different girls in the past month.
 He went to the restroom, leaving his iPhone and notebook on the table. I was bored sitting there alone so I started leafing through his notebook and I found some sort of love poetry "dedicated" to me. He writes something about me every day, and I also found my complete cell phone roster!
My new boyfriend is really really, really rich—townhouse-on-the-Upper-East-Side-multiple-homes-and-cars rich. He was born into it. He jets around, spending winters on tropical beaches, summers on European mountaintops. Me? I love working. My job is intense; I don't take much time off. I'm a serious, driven person.
The problem? He's the first person who's seen my adorably decorated apartment and not been impressed. I'm afraid this is just the tip of the iceberg. Will our lifestyles ever mesh? I don't want to be made to feel like I'm slaving away to make a low-six-figure salary when I could be just having fun with my boyfriend, the gazillionaire. There's also the significant fact that if we ever got married, I'm not sure I could be comfortable spending his money. Can this possibly work?
 I've been dating a boy for seven months and am head over heels in love. Very early in our relationship, he mentioned he had a fiancé who died unexpectedly after being with him for four years. He will not answer any questions about the dead fiancée because he said it would be too painful for me (huh?). He's secretive about everything. He has a number of aliases, won't share his e-mail address, phone numbers, etc., and has no close friends or family. And now there are four years of his life about which I can't ask any questions.
My friends and family all think I'm going to wind up in a body bag. But I think his fiancé's death was so painful, he can't talk about it because he doesn't have closure. I've suggested he see a therapist, but he says that's "not an option." Should I forget it? Or give the guy more time and see if he'll open up?
 I'm in love with a wonderful man. We laugh, talk, inspire, and support each other. We hug, we shag, we cuddle. He's the one who understands me best; but when he asked me to marry him, I said no. Marriage to me is a death sentence, a path to a joyless, sexless life; just thinking of marriage sends me into panic attacks. And yes, if you're wondering, my parents are still married. I'm not waiting for something better to come along. I just don't want to marry. What to do? I can't imagine my life without him. On the other hand, I can't imagine my life with him. Please help!
My constant, absentminded habit of saying "I'm sorry" is being noticed at work. My supervisor remarked about it twice and a trusted coworker has called it to my attention. How can I kick this habit?
I cheated on my girlfriend, then found out four months later that she’d been busy with someone at church. We share a two-year-old son. She also has a nine-year-old daughter. The girl’s father passed away and I’m her father figure, for now.
Even before I found out about my girlfriend’s affair, she told me she needed space. I was hoping we could work out our differences for the sake of the kids. But she wasn’t interested. In the past we’ve talked about marriage, but she would never commit. She lives with her mother.
Since I’ve learned about her church buddy, I’ve stopped chasing after her although I still love her. My question is, should I still pursue her or is it a waste of time? She’s 30, I’m 34. We’ve known each other since high school and have been off and on ever since.
My boyfriend was all-around great. We met him at school last year and made a special connection. After six great months and he came over, acting weird, and said, “I need to break up. I want to date other people and I’m not sure about us.”
My natural reaction was to cry in disbelief. After two hours, I calmed down and we worked things out. Our relationship actually reached a new level of intimacy. We shared our thoughts and feelings. We talked of marriage and children but agreed to wait until we were established in our careers. He was going to take a year off before starting veterinarian school, and I had a year and a half of college left.
Then a month ago, the same thing! He said, “I’m so sorry, but I’m not in love with you. I need to find out who I am. I want to date other people. I hope I’m not making the biggest mistake of my life.”
How could someone just turn their feelings on and off like that? Why do people play with other people’s feelings?
My husband of 24 years and I divorced six weeks ago, with a decent degree of civility and warm feelings. Last week, much to my surprise, he informed me and our twenty-year-old daughter, that he’s getting married in two weeks to a woman he met recently. She’s 20 years his junior and has never left her native Thailand. She will be moving to the U.S> soon, leaving behind her own daughter, her family, and the only culture she’s ever known.
On the one hand, I’m very glad that I’m no longer married to this man, who seems patently irrational. On the other, I’m very upset to see this transformation in my ex-husband. While we certainly didn’t agree on many things, I never thought of him as irrational or unrealistic.
Can you set me straight? Has this guy suddenly become someone else? Is he undergoing a bout of temporary insanity? Is it a mid-life crisis? Or is my perspective warped by the divorce?
Two years ago I feel in love with a man I’ve known all my life. We now have a baby together. He wasn’t able to make it to the hospital when I was giving birth because he was in the Marines. Before he was sent overseas he told me he’d be able to come home for 10 days. That was a lie. He was home for 12 days.  Out of 12 days, he spent four with us.
Six months later I found letters from a girl he’d slept with during that leave. To this day he denies it. 
About two months ago he started to lose interest in me.  He doesn’t take me out, doesn’t smile at me, doesn’t want to be around me.  Not only that, I found nude pictures of his ex-girlfriend in his car.  Should I leave him? 
He says he wants me to stay and I hate taking our daughter away, but I’m dying for his love and I don’t get it. Plus, he refuses to see a therapist. 
I  am 18 and a student.  I recently slept with a guy at work and he has not paid attention to me since.  I have totally fallen for him.
We have known each other since primary school and he always was shy.  Why won't he speak to me, let alone date me?
I am 50 years old.  My family does not like my new boyfriend. They think he is goofy and refuse to have him around.  They want me to come alone. 
I do not have the heart to tell him that he is not invited to my family's house because no one likes him.  I am tired of making up excuses for why he is not included.
If my family really got to know him they would like him.  He comes from a good family, he does not drink and believes in God.  When I am with him I feel good about myself. We like doing the same things and he makes me laugh.  I have never been closer to anyone in my life.  We supported each other when his father and my mother died.
My sister wanted me to come help clean out my mother's things and she told me to leave my boyfriend home because no one likes him She doesn't care how I feel.  He was eager to help.  I told him it was canceled.  What should I do?
I've known this guy for about 6 months and he's my best friend. We have a lot of things in common and we just seem to click. There is one problem though, my friend who introduced us has liked him for 4 years.
He pretty much ignores her and spends time with me.  I don't know what to tell her.  We are attracted to each other and we keep sneaking around so she won't see us in town.  I told her that I like him and she was upset.  Is there a easy way to tell her we are becoming a couple?
I am a young girl who is dating a boy who likes me a lot.  All my friends know him and say that he is a user and a player.  He says he will commit suicide if he loses me.  I still like him but I can't stand this emotional stuff.  All the guys I know say to leave him and that he is a jerk.  I don't want to hurt him and I still care about him a lot.  It makes me cry.
I am in a muddle.  I love two men. One is my ex.-boyfriend who wants to come back to me, the other is my current boyfriend. Both are lovely men, but feel more spiritually attached to my ex.  I  am unable to make a decision.  Do you have any tips?
I have been dating a guy over the net.  We are close and even told each other that we loved each other and we both really mean it.  I am almost 16 and he is 18. 
Now he won't email me back or even try to find me on the net.  I know he has a steady job but shouldn't he make time for his girlfriend?  Please tell me what to do.
I work for an adult phone service. I met this guy on the phone line 5 years ago. He is very much in love with my character (basically me). The problem is, I don't look any thing like character. He is 31, I am 50, and separated from my second husband. He thinks I am younger and have never been married. I have 3 grown children and a grandson.
I am in love with him.  Do I tell him the truth, and risk making him  angry and lose my job or do I break things off and disappear. He has never been in a serious relationship and no matter how much I have tried to push him away, he keeps coming back. No matter what happens, he's going to be hurt, but it's hard to tell someone that you have lied to them for 5 years. HELP!
I have fallen in love with a man who has been my friend for the past 5 years. He is a great person and we are close.  Since he likes being single and I am scared of rejection I have always felt pretty safe not having to say anything to him about how I feel.  We are both really shy when it comes to the opposite sex and he doesn't give me any idea about how he feels about me.
I have been driving myself crazy because I want to be in a relationship with him and he just slept with someone.  It was a one-nightstand but I feel that our relationship is in jeopardy.  He even mentioned the other day that we should go on a trip together next year.  I can't imagine loving anyone else as much as I love him.
I respect, love, honor and cherish this man as my friend and now I want more. But, I don't want our friendship to end or change. What should I do?

